[Music]
hi my name is Cameron Russell and for
the last a little while I've been a
model actually for ten years and I feel
like there's an uncomfortable tension in
the room right now because I should not
have worn this dress so luckily I
brought an outfit change this is the
first outfit change on the Ted stage so
you guys are pretty lucky to witness it
I think if some of the women were really
horrified when I came out you don't have
to tell me now but I'll find out later
on Twitter I'd also note that I'm quite
privileged to be able to transform what
you think of me in a very brief ten
seconds not everybody gets to do that
these heels are very uncomfortable so
good thing I wasn't going to wear them
the worst part is putting a sweater over
my head because that's when you'll laugh
at me so don't do anything while it's
over my head all right so why did I do
that that was awkward well hopefully not
this awkward is that picture image is
powerful but also image is superficial I
just totally transformed what you
thought of me in six seconds and in this
picture I had actually never had a
boyfriend in real life
I was totally uncomfortable in the
photographer was telling me to arch my
back and put my hand in that guy's hair
and of course barring surgery or the
fake tan that I got two days ago for
work there's very little that we can do
to transform how we look and how we look
though it is superficial and immutable
has a huge impact on our lives so today
for me
fearless means being honest and I am on
this stage because I'm a model I'm on
this stage because I'm a pretty white
woman and my industry we call that a
sexy girl and I'm gonna answer the
questions that people always ask me but
with an honest twist so the first
question is how do you become a model
and I always just say oh I was scouted
but that means nothing the real way that
I became a model is I want a genetic
lottery and I am the recipient of a
legacy and maybe you're wondering what
is a legacy well for the past few
centuries we have defined beauty not
just as health and youth and symmetry
that were biologically programmed to
admire but also as tall slender figures
and femininity and white skin and this
is a legacy that was built for me and
it's a legacy that I've been cashing out
on and I know there are people in the
audience who are skeptical at this point
and maybe there are some fashionistas
who are like wait Naomi Tyra Joan Smalls
Liu Wen and first I commend you on your
model knowledge very impressive but
unfortunately I have to inform you that
in 2007 a very inspired and why you PhD
student counted all the models on the
runway every single one that was hired
and of the 677 models that were hired
only 27 or less than 4% were non-white
the next question people always ask me
is can I be a model when I grow up and
the first answer is I don't know they
don't put me in charge of that but the
second answer and what I really want to
say to these little girls is why you
know you can be anything you could be
the president the United States or the
inventor of the next Internet or a ninja
cardiothoracic surgeon poet which would
be awesome because to be the first one
if after this amazing list they still
are like no no Cameron I want to be a
model well then I say be my boss because
I'm not in charge of anything and you
could be the editor-in-chief of American
Vogue at the CEO of HTM or the next
Stephen Mizell saying that you want to
be a model when you grow up is akin to
saying that you want to win the
Powerball when you grow up it's you know
out of your control and it's awesome and
it's not a career path I will
demonstrate for you now ten years of
accumulated model knowledge because
unlike cardiothoracic surgeons it can
just be distilled right into right now
so if the photographer is right there
and the light is right there like a nice
HMI and the client says Cameron we want
a walking shot well then this leg goes
first nice and long this arm goes back
this arm goes forward the head is at 3/4
and you just go back and forth just do
that and then you look back at your
imaginary friends three hundred four
hundred five hundred times it will look
something like this
hopefully less awkward than that one in
the middle that was I don't know what
happened there unfortunately after
you've gone to school and you have a
resume and you've done a few jobs you
can't say anything anymore so if you say
you want to be the President of the
United States but your resume reads
underwear model ten years people give
you a funny look the next question we've
always asked me is do they retouch all
the photos and yeah they pretty much
retouch all the photos but that is only
a small component of what's happening
this picture is a very first picture
that I ever took and it's also the very
first time that I had worn a bikini and
I didn't even have my period yet I know
we're getting personal but uh you know I
was a young girl this is what I looked
like with my grandma just a few months
earlier here's me on the same day as
this shoot my friend got to come with me
here's me at a slumber party a few days
before I shot French Vogue here's me on
the soccer team and in V Magazine and
here's me today and I hope what you're
seeing is that these pictures are not
pictures of me they are constructions
and they are constructions by
professionals by hair stylist and makeup
artists and photographers and stylist
and all of their assistants and
pre-production and post-production and
they build this that's not me
okay so the next question people always
ask me is do you get free stuff
I do have too many 8-inch heels which I
never get to wear except for earlier but
the free stuff that I get is the free
stuff that I get in real life and that's
what we don't like to talk about I grew
up in Cambridge and one time I went into
a store and I forgot my money and they
gave me the dress for free when I was a
teenager I was driving with my friend
who was an awful driver and she ran a
read and of course we got pulled over
and all it took was a sorry officer and
we were on our way and I got these free
things because of how I look not who I
am and there are people paying a cost
for how they look and not who they are I
live in New York and last year of the
140,000 teenagers that were stopped and
frisked 86% of them were black and
Latino and most of them were young men
and there are only 177 thousand young
black and Latino men in New York so for
them it's not a question of will I get
stopped but how many times do I get
stopped when I get stopped when I was
researching this talk I found out that
of the thirteen-year-old girls the
United States fifty-three percent don't
like their bodies and that number goes
to 78 percent by the time that they're
17 so the last question people ask me is
you know what is it like to be a model
and I think the answer that they're
looking for is if you are a little bit
skinnier and you have shinier hair you
will be so happy and fabulous and one
we're backstage we give an answer that
maybe makes it seem like that we say
it's really amazing to travel and it's
amazing to get to work with creative
inspired passionate people and those
things are true but they're only one
half of the story because the thing that
we never say on camera that I have never
said on camera is I am insecure and I'm
insecure because I have to think about
what I look like every day and if you
ever are wondering you know if I have
thinner thighs and shinier hair will I
be happier you just need to meet a group
of models because they have the thinnest
thighs and the shiniest hair and the
coolest clothes and they're the most
physically insecure women probably on
the planet so when I was writing this
talk I found it very difficult to strike
an honest balance because on the one
hand I felt very uncomfortable to come
out here and say look I've received all
these Ben
it's from a deck stacked in my favor and
it also felt really uncomfortable to
follow that up with and it doesn't
always make me happy but mostly it was
difficult to unpack a legacy of gender
and racial oppression when why I'm one
of the biggest beneficiaries but I'm
also happy and honored to be up here and
I think that it's great I got to come
you know before 10 or 20 or 30 years had
passed and I'd had more agency in my
career because maybe then I wouldn't
tell the story of how I got my first job
or maybe I wouldn't tell the story of
how I paid for college which seems so
important right now if there's a
takeaway to this talk I hope is that we
all feel more comfortable acknowledging
the power of image in our perceived
successes and our perceived failures
thank you
[Applause]
you